off the coast of south africa
more adolescents have reached that
difficult age
at two years old male bottlenose
dolphins
leave their mother's pod to form
boisterous gangs
looking for excitement they like nothing
better
than surfing spy
turtle is here to see what they get up
to
he in turn is joined by another spy
creature
this is spy puffer based on a fish that
blows itself into a defensive puffball
the spy creatures are here to film these
teenage tearaways
spy puffer faces a bumpy ride
bus stops are common
it's easy to get caught in the middle
young males are so unruly the females
kicked them out of the family poor
this isn't spy puffer it's a real puffer
fish
the poor creature gets the same rough
treatment
perfect for a game of catch
[Applause]
but the dolphins are dicing with death
pufferfish are one of the most poisonous
fish in the ocean they exude a powerful
nerve poison called tetrodotoxin
it only takes a small amount to kill a
human
even so the dolphins often look for
puffer fish
and love to chew on them
taken in small doses the secretions seem
to have a narcotic effect
[Music]
the dolphins are careful not to swallow
them instead they hold them gently in
their mouths
despite the risks passing the puffer has
become a popular dolphin past
time
[Music]
luckily the little fishes usually
survive the strange experience
each autumn a squirrel buries around 10
000 knots
its memory is so phenomenal it can
retrieve up to four thousand of them
to achieve this feat as winter
approaches the area of the brain
responsible for memory
enlarges 15 percent
the squirrels show another brainy treat
cunning
a spy squirrel bearing gifts is ready to
record their devious behavior
he looks a soft touch
but the squirrel needs to be sure
he lashes his tail to show confidence
fluffing it up makes him appear bigger
and shows who's boss
spy squirrel is a pushover he's going to
be popular
the nut is immediately stashed away
but clever minds can also be devious
[Music]
and this squirrel watches where the nut
is hidden
as soon as it's buried she makes her
[Music]
move
okay if you don't get caught but there's
big trouble if you do
[Music]
then
the duped squirrel needs to be craftier
this time
the crook may still be watching but this
is what he wants
in a shameless display of overacting
he pretends to bury his nut
[Music]
the thief waits until the performance is
over
then quietly sneaks in
but there's no knot to pilfer here
hardly surprising
it's stashed in his intended victim's
mouth
[Music]
with the nut raider preoccupied he can
either eat it
or bury it secretly
but the thief hasn't abandoned her life
of crime
spy squirrel has a new knot
one with a camera
theft is such an easy option around a
fifth of all squirrels steel nuts
rather than forage for them
it's a crafty way of letting others do
the hard work
but this time the thief has picked the
wrong knot
in the forests of senegal spy bush baby
is part of a team of spy cameras
capturing intimate views of our closest
living relatives
here the family lives a charmed
existence
parental love and friendships form the
foundation of their society
[Music]
spy tortoise is also being deployed
but these are highly perceptive animals
and something's not quite right
this five-year-old checks what the
others are thinking
they seem equally baffled
but with his curiosity peaked he simply
can't stay away
as his interest grows so does the
strength of his feelings
he just has to have spy tortoise all to
himself
he hides with it in his leafy day bed
where he'd normally take a nap
but he's too excited to sleep
he's torn between using it as a pillow
and giving it a cuddle
it's somewhere between a toy and a pet
it's definitely not for sharing
uh
chimps don't normally have possessions
but spy tortoise has stirred new
emotions
for our spy creatures being immersed in
the world of animals
is not without its hazards
in rajasthan the temple langers have
taken spy monkey into the heart of the
family
but some are keen to take the budding
relationship to the next level
and are getting a little too familiar
one seems to want to babysit her
but disaster strikes
an injured baby is a cause for concern
and this langer seems to believe she's
died
then something extraordinary happened
the monkeys gather round the motionless
spy creature
as if it is a real baby
[Music]
they react just as they do when their
own babies die
[Music]
a calm and contemplative mood descends
on the colony
there's a sense of grief as well as
empathy for one another
quite accidentally our spy creature is
at the center of something
extraordinary capturing emotions
that have rarely been observed
[Music]
with the herd staying in one place our
spy cams can be everywhere
even a tree stump spies on the calf's
every movement
[Music]
boulder cam was first used in a film
that spied on lions
now it finds a new generation to
entertain
as always the lion's first reaction
is curiosity
but these cats are more inquisitive than
most
one cub has taken to it in a big way
boulder cam doubles up as a baby walker
[Music]
so
that's okay
[Music]
you